By my little bird
Welcome to the Extreme Harry Potter Crawl: Year One! Depending on your 
writing speed, pick your blood status.
Muggleborn: Slower
Halfblood: Medium
Pureblood: Faster

Galleons can be used to purchase round skips. If you don’t want to do a 
specific challenge, spend a Galleon in order to move on to the next one.

---

You receive your Hogwarts letter by owl and are completely ecstatic to head
 out for your first year at Hogwarts. Sprint to 100 to let out your excitement 
and energy.

You arrive in Diagon Alley and your first stop is Gringotts, wizard bank.
 Write for ten minutes. The amount of words you write will determine how many 
Galleons are in your vault.
Muggleborns
Less than 100 words: 1 Galleon
100-200 words: 2 Galleons
More than 200 words: 3 Galleons

Halfbloods
Less than 150 words: 1 Galleon
150-250 words: 2 Galleons
More than 250 words: 3 Galleons

Purebloods
Less than 250 words: 1 Galleon
250-350 words: 2 Galleons
More than 350 words: 3 Galleons

You step into Ollivander’s wand shop. Roll a die and multiply your roll by 100. 
Sprint to that many words.

Finally, you’re done shopping! But before you leave, you decide that you want 
to purchase a pet. Write for 15 minutes as you search for the perfect animal for
 you. Pick one: owl, cat, toad.

After months of waiting, you’ve arrived on platform 9 ¾ and boarded the Hogwarts 
Express! Write to the nearest thousand as you settle into your seat and get ready
 for a long ride. If you need to write more than 500 words for this challenge and
 choose not to skip this round, take one Galleon.

Anything off the trolley, dear? Buy some sweets to help get you through the ride! 
Depending on your candy, find your challenge below!
Bertie Bott’s Every Flavour Beans: Participate in a Fifty Headed Hydra as you 
frantically try to get the taste of vomit out of your mouth.
Chocolate Frog: Write for five minutes as you chase down the frog.
Licorice Wand: Sprint to 150 words
Pumpkin Pasties: Roll a die and multiply by 50. Write that many words.
If you take the lot and complete all the challenges, take one Galleon as well. 
If you have a toad, you may skip this round for free.

You arrive at the castle and wait in the hall with the rest of the first years.
 You notice a boy with messy black hair and glasses talking with a redheaded boy,
 a girl with bushy hair whispering to the people around her, and a boy with pale…
 well, everything. Write for ten minutes as you attempt to socialize with the 
people around you.

Professor McGonagall escorts you and your peers into the Great Hall for the 
Sorting. After the Sorting Hat sings its song and several students walk up 
timidly, your name is called, and you sit yourself down on the stool, 
timid and worried about what is about to happen. McGonagall places the hat on 
your head, and you are sorted into your House. Pick from the four Houses- 
Gryffindor, Hufflepuff, Ravenclaw, and Slytherin.
Gryffindor: Are you brave enough to write ten times your typing speed in 
10 minutes?
Hufflepuff: Remain loyal to your word count and write steadily for one hour 
with no breaks.
Ravenclaw: Calculate how many words it will take for you to write to the 
nearest 1000.
Slytherin: You’re an ambitious one, aren’t you? Write 1000 words in 30 minutes!

The feast is delicious! Do the Three Digit Challenge as you eat at your House 
table and talk with those around you, as well as your House ghost. If you have
 an owl, you may skip this round for free.

You’ve settled into your dormitory quite quickly and nicely, and your first 
couple weeks of class go well. Write for an hour as you grow accustomed to 
your new classes and all of the magic you’re learning.
Muggleborns: If you write 750 words within the hour, take 2 Galleons.
Halfbloods: If you write 1,000 words within the hour, take 2 Galleons.
Purebloods: If you write 1,250 words within the hour, take 2 Galleons.

On your way to Potions, the messy haired boy who you now know is 
Harry Potter stops and asks you if you know where Professor Binns’ classroom is. 
Write 200 words in 10 minutes as you try to remember where his classroom is.
If you succeed: Harry hurries to Binns’ classroom and gives you a Galleon as a 
thank you for your help.
If you fail: You spend so much time trying to help Harry that you are both 
late to your next class. Write another 200 words as you apologize to Snape and
 try not to lose any points for your House.

You get locked out of your common room and Mrs. Norris finds you! You run with 
Harry, Ron, and Hermione to the third door corridor, and you find a giant 
three-headed dog! After making it back to your dormitory safely, roll a die,
 multiply your roll by 100, and write that many words as you try to calm down. 
If you have a cat, you can skip this round for free.

Troll! In the dungeon! You go with Harry and Ron to find Hermione and end 
up fighting the troll with them. Sprint to 500, and try not to get yourself 
killed.

You go down to Hagrid’s hut to have tea with him. When you try his treacle fudge,
 your teeth get stuck together! Write for twenty minutes as Hagrid tries to help
 and Madam Pomfrey magically loosens the cement-like effect the fudge had on your
 mouth.

Months pass, and it’s Christmas morning! You receive 3 Galleons from your parents,
as well as a challenge from the Weasley twins. Write 1000 words in under an hour.
If you succeed: they give you a Galleon.
If you fail: they hit you with snowballs until you’re buried under heavy amounts
of snow and make you write 250 more words.

During the Gryffindor vs Slytherin Quidditch game, you get incredibly excited.
 Roll a die. If even, you’re cheering for Gryffindor; if odd, you’re cheering for
 Slytherin. Word war for fifteen minutes with someone cheering for the opposite 
team. If you beat them, you win your bet, and you take 2 of their Galleons. 
But be careful- if you lose, you give them 2 of your Galleons. A bet’s a bet.

Harry tells you that he suspects that Snape is going after the Philosopher’s
 Stone and you decide to go with the trio to try to get to the Stone before 
Snape does. But before you can even go down the trapdoor, you need to make it 
past Fluffy. Write for ten minutes as you lull him to sleep sneak through the 
door.

Oh no- you and your friends are trapped in a patch of Devil’s Snare! Hermione 
tells you that you need to write 250 words in five minutes in order to safely 
escape.
If you succeed: You make it out of the deadly plant without a scratch and even
 spot a Galleon on the ground. What luck!
If you fail: Hermione has to set the plant on fire to get you out alive. 
She thinks very poorly of your skills now, so write another 250 words to impress
 her.

Harry catches a flying key and opens a large wooden door. Inside the next room is
 a giant wizard chess set. You and your friends need to replace some of the 
pieces and play the game. Ron takes the place of a knight, Harry becomes a 
bishop, and Hermione takes over for a rook. Pick a chess piece and complete the
 challenge below!
Pawn: You know you won’t be of much use to the game and think it would be 
wisest to be taken out early. Complete a Fifty Headed Hydra and take a fifteen
 minute writing break to recover from your injuries.
Rook: You take the place of the other rook and spend the game running across 
the board, strategically taking out important pieces of the other side’s team.
 Sprint to 200 and take a five minute writing break once the game is won.
Bishop: You take the place of the other bishop and sneakily take out pawns on 
the other team. Write for 20 minutes and take a five minute writing break once 
the game is won.
Knight: You take the place of the other knight and become the wild card of the
 match. Write 300 words in 15 minutes until you’re taken out by one of the 
other team’s rooks. Take a fifteen minute writing break to recover from your 
injuries.

Harry and Hermione move ahead into the next room when you stay with Ron. 
When Hermione comes back, sprint to 300 as you run to find Dumbledore and 
explain the situation to him.

The word gets out that Professor Quirrell is the one who wanted the stone, not 
Snape! Rumors also spread of your bravery in helping Harry, Ron, and Hermione 
as you four went through the challenges the professors set to protect the stone.
 Dumbledore awards you fifty points for your courage. Write for five minutes as
 your peers congratulate and admire you.

Summer vacation is here! Take an hour long writing break- you deserve it! 
In the meantime, post your words written during your first year at Hogwarts as 
well as how many Galleons you have left in your vault, and stay tuned for the 
Extreme Harry Potter Crawl: Year Two!